From N.ChueHong@epcc.ed.ac.uk Wed Oct  3 21:51:05 2012
Date: Thu, 4 Oct 2012 03:50:59 +0100
From: neil p chue hong <N.ChueHong@epcc.ed.ac.uk>
To: Shantenu Jha <shantenu.jha@rutgers.edu>
Subject: Notes on 3DPAS

Hardware infrastructure blurring of lines between whether there is
distributed, coordinated hardware infrastructure or where there is a
distributed system which makes use of distributed but independent
hardware

sensor nets

HDFS - distributed file systems are different? where does the control lie?

Do we need to add something about software?

Is the section too "data intensive"?

change round the order of first two paragraphs to introduce software
focus then go on to the distinction between infrastructure and
application

Data sources (if you introduce hardware then keep in sensors and instruments)

Notification - both management (notification) and analysis (e.g. triggers)

Processing instead of Enrichment

Workflow section needs to be shortened and reference 3DPAS properties
- dataflow driven systems?
Application section X shows these characteristics. Do any actually
show dataflows? Workflows? Why did applications not use particular
workflows / dataflows?
What controls the flow is the distinction?
Say that this is the theory, but it turns out to be harder to define
in practice when analysing applications
Keep sentence beginning "the granularity..." etc.

workflows vs programming models
User Defined Function

Explain why breaking POSIX-compliance makes hdfs more able to handle
3DPAS characteristics

Remove BSP section? The sentence "The key approach..." shows BSP is
amenable to distribution - is this enough to keep it in?

Put workflows, mapreduce, stream processing (event processing?) in new
section called Infrastructure to support coordination of 3DPAS
applications?
Adaptive Programming Systems - speak to the dynamic nature of 3DPAS

Context required to provide connective tissue between subsections

Adaptation
- add some reference to this in Section 1/2/3 referring to adaptation
as some response to dynamism
- show in section 4 what infrastructure is needed to support
adaptation as an example of infrastructure to support dynamism
- in section 5 identify a comparative quantativie measure of
adaptation as a characteristic of dynamism e.g. the change in
"operations"/"application" over time or increasing data?

In Section 5, alpha is more a measure of data intensive than dynamic
(no rate of change)

Opening text for Table III. What's the take home message
Table shows that individual components can support both dynamic and
distributed nature of applications but that one does not imply the
other
Many implementations - even if a common type of component is present
in different applications to support the same type of
dynamic/distributed characteristic, it is not necessarily the same
component.

Enrichment components are generally at to low a level to be
distributed. You can see how enrichment components could be dynamic in
the sense that they are responsive to external stimuli but this is not
evident in the aplications in the table (but might have been in, e.g.
fish4knowledge)

Tone down questions in 4.4, treat as examples and analysis. Revisit
adaptive pipelines briefly.(Do we need mention of pipelines in earlier
section on coordination infrastructure)

"There is also significant variations in where the pipeline..."
another example of the "blurriness" we should add something at the end
to summarise and restate this blurriness of the boundaries of the
infrastructure.



-- 
Neil Chue Hong
Director, Software Sustainability Institute
EPCC, University of Edinburgh, JCMB, Edinburgh, EH9 3JZ, UK
Tel: +44 (0)131 650 5957
http://www.software.ac.uk/

LinkedIn: http://uk.linkedin.com/in/neilchuehong
Twitter: http://twitter.com/npch

The University of Edinburgh is a charitable body, registered in
Scotland, with registration number SC005336.

