I'm writing to invite you to participate in a Research Theme on
Dynamic Distributed Data-Intensive Programming Systems and
Applications (3DPAS), jointly funded by the UK EPSRC and the US
NSF: 
 http://wiki.esi.ac.uk/3DPAS

3DPAS is a data-intensive extension of a soon-to-conclude research
theme on "Distributed Programming Abstractions" (DPA).  You can find
more about the DPA theme at:
 http://wiki.esi.ac.uk/Distributed_Programming_Abstractions

This research theme will involve a series of meetings and workshops.
The second of these will be held on the 17, 18 and 19 February in
Edinburgh, UK. The second meeting (by invitation only; website will go
live soon) of 3DPAS, aims to continue to explore and refine the
specific objectives and roadmap of the 3DPAS theme.  

The main areas we want to cover are: (i) Understanding the
requirements and challenges of Distributed BIG-DATA applications and
Distributed Dynamic applications, (ii) Cyberinfrastructure,
Programming Systems and Abstractions for such Applications, and (iii)
Propose and investigate "real" solutions for "real" problems.  This
meeting will follow a working-group format: Half a dozen predetermined
& invited presentations, break-out sessions, with group-leads
reporting back to the rest of the participants. This meeting will
provide a venue for the working-group to formulate and highlight the
critical, interesting and tractable challenges/questions/issues along
each of the three areas outlined above.

We were hoping you'd be able to come and speak to the < XXXXXXX place
customised text here XXXXXXX > strand of the workshop, which will
complement two other strands on < XXXXXX delete one of the next three,
the one you used above: applications and infrastructure and programming
systems XXXXXX >. We're trying to get speakers who < XXXXXXX place customised
text here XXXXXXX >

If you are able to join us, we think you will bring a unique
perspective to the theme. We think coupling 3DPAS activities to other
data-intensive activities that you're involved with will be very
interesting and fruitful. We're constantly refining the
aims/objectives of the theme, so your involvement will also be helpful
in shaping the direction.  Ideally, you will be able to commit to
participating and contributing to all the workshops and follow-on
reports; but if for some reason you can't make the upcoming workshop
in February, we'd be more than glad for you to contribute/participate
in subsequent meetings.

Ultimately 3DPAS proposes to engender some, or all of the following:
possible new proposals, state-of-the-art report to government/funding
agencies, identify new grand challenges and facilitate prototype
implementations of novel abstractions and architectures (such as on
the US FutureGrid).

If could let us know what you think, that'd be great. We have some
funding available to support travel etc and I will be glad to discuss
specific details of support <remove / add as necessary (as per terms of agreement with NSF)>.

Best regards,

